The time of the actual enjoyment is short and swift, and made much shorter through their own fault. For they dash from one pleasure to another and cannot stay steady in one desire.
A ship should not ride on a single anchor, nor life on a single hope.
"What progress, you ask, have I made? I have begun to be a friend to myself." That was indeed a great benefit; such a person can never be alone. You may be sure that such a man is a friend to all mankind.
If you would cure anger, do not feed it. Say to yourself: 'I used to be angry every day; then every other day; now only every third or fourth day.' When you reach thirty days offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving to the gods.
Don't live as though you were going to live a myriad years. Fate is hanging over your head; while you have life, while you may, become good.
Nature hath given men one tongue but two ears, that we may hear from others twice as much as we speak.
We live among wicked man through our own wickedness. One thing alone can bring us peace, an agreement to treat one another with kindness.
When you find your direction, check to make sure that it is the right one.
The more we value things outside our control, the less control we have.
Life is opinion.
Give thyself time to learn something new and good, and cease to be whirled around.
The first rule is to keep an untroubled spirit. The second is to look things in the face and know them for what they are.
Never will there be a shortage of reasons for anxiety, whether born of happiness or misery; life will press on its way from one pursuit to another; leisure will never be enjoyed, though the prayer is constantly on our lips.
Sorrowers tend to avoid what they are most fond of and try to give vent to their grief.
The knowledge of what is mine and what is not mine, what I can and cannot do. I must die. But must I die bawling? I must be exiled; but is there anything to keep me from going with a smile, calm and self-composed?
Inwardly, we ought to be different in all respects, but our exterior should conform to society.
The fool's life is empty of gratitude and full of fears; its course lies wholly toward the future.
That deed and word should be in accord, that a man should be equal to himself under all conditions, and always the same.
When you arise in the morning think of what a privilege it is to be alive, to think, to enjoy, to love ...
If it doesn't harm your character, how can it harm your life?
Remember: philosophy requires only what your nature already demands.
It is better to understand the balance-sheet of one’s own life than of the corn trade.
As to what the future's uncertain lot has in store, why should I demand of Fortune that she give rather than demand of myself that I should not crave?
When one is busy and absorbed in one's work, the very absorption affords great delight; but when one has withdrawn one's hand from the completed masterpiece, the pleasure is not so keen.
Kings hate to hear the things they order spoken.
To be like the rock that the waves keep crashing over. It stands unmoved and the raging of the sea falls still around it.
Don't put your purpose in one place and expect to see progress made somewhere else.
Throw aside all hindrances and give up your time to attaining a sound mind.
He who laughs at himself never runs out of things to laugh at.
There is nothing in the world so much admired as a man who knows how to bear unhappiness with courage.
Understand what words you use first, then use them.
He is ungrateful who denies that he has received a kindness which has been bestowed upon him; he is ungrateful who conceals it; he is ungrateful who makes no return for it; most ungrateful of all is he who forgets it.
From my great-grandfather: not to have attended schools for the public; to have had good teachers at home, and to realize that this is the sort of thing on which one should spend lavishly.
Fire tests gold, suffering tests brave men.
The more a mind takes in the more it expands.
They are like prowling enemies who pounce on you when occasion offers, and allow you neither to be at the ready as in war nor at ease as in peace.
Enter their minds, and you'll find the judges you're so afraid of—and how judiciously they judge themselves.
It is the quality of a great soul to scorn great things and to prefer that which is ordinary rather than that which is too great.
The Stoics had always approved of participation in public life, and this stand struck a chord with the Roman aristocracy, whose code of values placed a premium on political and military activity.
Live every day as if they last.
